Readmecontributing (#20)
mentorpaired/core: README.md

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/mentorpaired/core.svg?branch=staging)](https://travis-ci.org/mentorpaired/core) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/mentorpaired/core/badge.svg?branch=staging)](https://coveralls.io/github/mentorpaired/core?branch=staging)

# CORE
Core is the backend of MentorPaired, an app which connects software engineering mentors to mentees who seek to learn any programming language.

### Tech
Core is written in Python3 and Django 3.0.3.

> ### Installation For Ubuntu 18.04 Users

Reviewer: This can be:
### Installation 
**Ubuntu 18.04 Users**

Author: Okay

 Please install and set up the following packages first, upgrade if you find the package is already installed:
* Python3. Run the 'python3 -V' command to see the version you have installed.

> * PostgreSQL (Ensure the server is running). Alternatively, if your project is a small one or you find you don't need PostgreSQL, Python includes a lightweight database called SQLite so you won't need to set up a database, however it cannot support a high level of concurrency.

Reviewer: Let's all stick to Postgres instead to be consistent. We can scrap the alternative

Author: Okay

> * It is advisable to install Django in a virtual environment and the library for doing this is called [virtualenvwrapper](https://virtualenvwrapper.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html#basic-installation). Install this library with:

Reviewer: virtualenvwrapper is just a wrapper around virtualenv. You can say this is an option and that the readme follows this. People can choose what virtualenv package they want to use.

```

> sudo pip install virtualenvwrapper

Reviewer: You don't need to add sudo. They can add sudo if they have permissions issue, not right away.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/mentorpaired/core.svg?branch=staging)](https://travis-ci.org/mentorpaired/core) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/mentorpaired/core/badge.svg?branch=staging)](https://coveralls.io/github/mentorpaired/core?branch=staging)

# CORE
Core is the backend of MentorPaired, an app which connects software engineering mentors to mentees who seek to learn any programming language.

### Tech
Core is written in Python3 and Django 3.0.3.

### Installation

#### Ubuntu 18.04 Users

 Please install and set up the following packages first, upgrade if you find the package is already installed:

> * Python3. Run the 'python3 -V' command to see the version you have installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Python3. Run the `python3 -v` command to see the version you have installed.
```

Author: I used the right command, '-v' does something else.

> * PostgreSQL (Ensure the server is running).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) (Ensure the server is running).
```

> * It is advisable to install Django in a virtual environment and the README uses [virtualenvwrapper](https://virtualenvwrapper.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html#basic-installation) to create this environment. You could use any virtualenv package of your choice or install this wrapper with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It is advisable to [install Django in a virtual environment](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.0/topics/install/#installing-an-official-release-with-pip). The instructions in this README uses [virtualenvwrapper](https://virtualenvwrapper.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html#basic-installation) to create an environment. You could use any virtual environment package of your choice or install this virtualenvwrapper with:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
```

pip install virtualenvwrapper
```

> * Add these lines at the end of your shell startup script (```.bashrc```, ```.zshrc```, etc)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add these lines at the end of your shell startup script (`.bashrc`, `.zshrc`, etc)
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
```

export WORKON_HOME=$HOME/.virtualenvs
export PROJECT_HOME=$HOME/Devel
source /usr/local/bin/virtualenvwrapper.sh
```

> * After editing, reload the startup file(e.g., run ```source ~/.bashrc```).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* After editing, reload the startup file(e.g., run `source ~/.bashrc`).
```

* Create a new virtual environment:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
```

mkvirtualenv <envname>
```

* Install requirements in the virtual environment created:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
```

pip install -r requirements.txt
```

* Create a database with PostgresQL, if you installed it earlier. If not, installation instructions can be found [here](https://www.postgresql.org/download/linux/ubuntu/)

* Create a .env file and copy the content of `.env.example` file to it.
* Replace
  - `DB_NAME` with your database name,
  - `DB_USER` with your database username,
  - `DB_PASSWORD` with your database password,
  - `SECRET_KEY` with the value gotten when you run this script in the terminal `python3 scripts/secret_key.py`.

* Run database migrations with this command

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
```

python3 manage.py migrate
```

* Run server to ensure everything is working properly.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
```

python3 manage.py runserver
```

To run tests:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
```

> $ python manage.py test

Reviewer: We can remove the $ sign to be consistent with others above.

```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
```

> $ flake8 .

Reviewer: We can remove the $ sign to be consistent with others above.

```

### Python installation instructions for Windows, macOS and other Linux distro Users

> * Refer to these guides here, and also feel free to google according to your specific needs: (https://www.python.org/downloads/), (https://realpython.com/installing-python/), (https://virtualenvwrapper.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html) and (https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Django/development_environment)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The following may serve as a guide: 
    * https://www.python.org/downloads/
    * https://realpython.com/installing-python/
    * https://virtualenvwrapper.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html
    * https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Django/development_environment
```
